### Three database revolutions

1950 - 1972 (pre relational)
1972 - 2005 (relational)
2005 - 2015+ (the next generation)

### Relational DBs

Codd, 1970 - Beginning of relational model

#### Key Concepts

* Tuples - an unordered set of attribute values (a row).
* A relation (table), which is a collection of distinct tuples.
* Constraints, which enforce consistency.
* Operations - joins, projections (selects), unions, etc.

#### OOD

When OOD became popular, Relational DBs were a problem. Objects had to be split up to store data.

Some object oriented databases were created, but it never took off. SQL was an industry standard, divide between devs and db admins.

#### Three pillars of Relational DBs

1) Relational Model
2) SQL
3) ACID

### The beginning of NoSQL in the 200's

Google (2006). BigTable: A distributed storage system for structured data
Amazon (2007). Dynamo: Amazon's highly available key-value store

Called "NoSQL" when there was a meetup for non sql database, and #NoSQL was used as the hashtag for the meetup

#### Characteristics of NoSQL

* Non-Relational
* Open source (with commercial variants)
* Designed for distributed storage (big data)
* Schema-less: Fields can be added easily, unlike in Relational
* Non-SQL query languages
* Not ACID compliant - May have some of acid but not all

Different NoSQL databases may be better suited for different tasks.

### Different types of NoSQL DBs

#### Key Value

* Only access data through a key, but value can be anything
* Often used when you need fast but simple operations
* Common use case: managing online shopping carts

Example: Redis

#### Document Database

* Non-relational db that stores data as structured documents, usually XML or JSON
* Simple, flexible, scalable
* Can access data by searching on document values
* Kind of a best of both worlds. Queryability of RDB, scalability of NoSQL

Example: MongoDB

#### Column Family Databases

* 

#### Graph Databases

* A graph is a collection fo nodes and relationships
* Nodes have one or more categorical labels and represent things
* Relationships have a single type and are a connected arc between 2 nodes
* Properties are key-val pairs taht are assigned to a node or a relationship
