### Acid vs Base

#### ACID

* Atomicity - All or nothing of the N actions. Commit or Rollback
* Consistency - Transactions never observe or cause inconsistent data
* Isolation - Transactions are not aware of concurrent transactions
* Durability - Acknowledged transactions persist in all events

#### BASE

(Kind of a joke)

* Optimistic Behavior - Accept temporary database inconsistency
* Basically Available - Availability by replicaiton
* Soft state - It is the user's application's task to guarantee consistency
* Eventaully consistent - In the long run, data will become consistent across servers

Philosophy of NoSQL - being consistent at all times not critical, replicas can take time to get most up to date.

### Thursday quiz

* Availability vs Consistency tradeoff
* Eventual Consistency

### Polyglot Persistence

* Many different tools for different use cases, no DB is 1 size fits all.
* Application software stiches together these tools.


### Challenges

* Reliability - The system should contineu to work correctly even with hardware, software, and user errors
* Scalability - As teh system grows, there should be reasonable ways of dealing with the growth.
* Maintainability - Productively work on the system as people come and go.

#### Reliability

* Predictable - Application performs as expected
* Fault-tolerant - Application copes with human error and hardware failures
* Performant - Performance is adequate under expected load and data volume
* Secure - System should be secure

**Faults** are a deviation in the spec of one particular component of the system. **Failures** cause the whole system to stop, requiring user intervention.

A system is *fault-tolerant* if it anticipates and copes with certain kind of faults.

Netflix implemented chaos monkey, forcing their devs to deal with automated faults in teh system.

* MTTF: Mean time to Failure (irreparable)
* MTBF: Mean time between failures (repair and return to service)x

#### Scalability

Twitter pre-processes tweets by writing them to a bucket for each user. If a user follows someone, and they tweet, that tweet is put into their bucket. **This increases number of writes, but makes reads much faster.**

**NEED MORE NOTES HERE**
#### Maintainability

~60-80% of cost of software is ongoing maintenance

Need to make system simple for engineers to understand, while being evolvable