## 4 for 1

1) Why how what ... code/design reviews?
2) JSON &#x2713; TCP
3) Specs: IFs & Protocols
4) Pair Programming

### Code Reviews

#### Errors, Mistakes, Bugs

* Spelling mistakes - caught by parser
* Typos - type checker
* Logical invariant - run-time system inserts checks, contracts to dev
	* E.X. trying to get a field called 'x' from a struct that only has a field called 'y'

##### _Integration errors_

Option 1: verification (think ACL2 verification) - 1 line of code ~ 75 lines of proof
Option 2: 

#### Review Techniques

##### _Questions_
* How many people review?
	* 3! 
* Who plays which role?
	* Head reader, assistant reader, scribe (secretary) 
* How prepared should the reviewer be?
	* Receive problem, not code, document
* How do you arrange the furniture?

##### _Goal_
* find mistakes
* rewind problem
* path from the overview to the questionable piece

### Specs

#### Protocols

##### _Definition_
* English
* Finite State Machines
* UML interaction diagram

### Pair Programming

#### Why two people are less expensive?

* Someone always around to debug your code
* If anyone is critical, the right thing to do is fire that person on the spot.
	* Bus # - Number of people who must be hit by a bus to create a critical problem for your company/project
		* People get bored, move to new jobs
		* Personal ties
		* Freak Accidents

#### How to pair program?

* Pilot and co-pilot
	* Pilot thinks aloud as going through code/solution
	* Co-pilot challenges pilot's train of thought
	* They should switch back and forth between the roles 